---
author: meshell
comments: false
date: 2019-01-20 10:45:24+00:00
layout: post
link:
title: We Built A Wardrobe
categories:
- Building
---
We built a wardrobe together this weekend. And when I say we, I mean the Tinyhuman and I. J was out doing J stuff (Hurrah!) And it was actually really lovely. I say actually because the usual idea of doing stuff like this with toddler/preschoolers/kids in general, at least in more mainstream conversations is one dripping with vague complaints of inconvenience and how hard it is to get anything done with small people around. 

And that's all true. It can be challenging, but we built more than a wardrobe with our work - we connected, we collaborated, we talked, and we played. And now he's got a new place to climb into. (and I suppose a new place to put his clothes, but we're not there yet.)

I'm usually the one that builds things. I'm reasonably handy. I have the inclination to it. I like making things. So this isn't the first time, and wont be the last. but I was astounded by his memory yesterday. He noticed that some of the bracing screws were the same ones that were part of holding his desk together. And he kept holding it in his hand saying "Are these for the desk?" And I kept saying no, we are building a wardrobe, and he would repeat, but are these for the desk? And he was patient with me, but I got on the same page as him eventually.

The pride of it cannot be overstated. When he woke up this morning, the first thing he told his dad was that he built a wardrobe. There is so much to that. I feel good that that is part of his life.
