---
author: meshell
comments: false
date: 2019-01-03 11:14:26+00:00
layout: post
title: Reading Women 2019 Booklist
category: Books
slug: Reading-Women-2019
title: Reading Women 2019 list
---

I finished a book in a few hours yesterday, The Windfall. I had started reading Descent into Night, and it's very interesting and compelling, but has dark themes and my brain needed a break from my usual intense reads.

I've decided that to maximize my reading I should always have three books on the go - a fun and light fiction book, a literary fiction, and a non-fiction. That way I won't get stuck avoiding reading, when the subject matter gets too intense, and instead, and switch back when I'm ready for it.

I also read it with the Reading Women 2019 Challenge in mind.

## ** Reading Women 2019 **

  1. **Mystery or thriller written by a woman of color**
      * ✔ A Study in Scarlet Women part of The Lady Sherlock Series by Sherry Thomas

  2. **A book about a woman with a mental illness**
      * ✔ Heart Berries: A Memoir by Terese Marie Mailhot

  3. **A book by an author from Nigeria or New Zealand**
      * ✔  Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie (Nigeria)
      * Pounamu, Pounamu by Witi Ihimaera (Maori New Zealand)
      * The Bone People by Keri Hulme (New Zealand)

  4. **A book about or set in Appalachia**
      * ✔ What you're getting wrong about Appalachia by Elizabeth Catte

  5. **A children's book**
      * ✔ I read so many wonderful children's books everyday... the benefits of having a toddler. Anything by Monique Gray Smith ranks high for me.

  6. **A multigenerational family saga**
    * Pachinko by Min Jin Lee
    * The Namesake by Jhumpa Lahiri
    * Song of Solomon by Toni Morrison
    * ✔  Things Fall Apart by Chinua Achebe

  7. **A book featuring a woman in science**
    * Lab Girl by Hope Jahren
    * Sleeping Giants by Sylvain Neuvel
    * ✔ Vox by Christina Dalcher
    * ✔ Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge, and the Teachings of Plants by Robin Wall Kimmerer

  8. **A play**
    * ✔ A very polite genocide or the girl who fell to earth by Melanie J. Murray
    * ✔ The Monument by Colleen Wagner  
    * ✔ Angélique by Lorena Gale (also playing at [the Factory Theatre this year](https://www.factorytheatre.ca/2018-19-season/angelique/)

  9. **A novella**
    * Home by Toni Morrison
    * ✔ Binti by Nnedi Okorafor (and all three in the trilogy)

  10. **A book about a woman athlete**
    * The Frailty Myth: Redefining the Physical Potential of Women and Girls' by Colette Dowling
    * ✔ Life in Motion: An Unlikely Ballerina' by Misty Copeland

  11. **A book featuring a religion other than your own**
    * ✔ The Poet X by Elizabeth Acevedo

  12. **A Lambda Literary Award winner**
    * Hunger by Roxane Gay
    * Small Beauty by Jia Qing Wilson-Yang

  13. **A myth retelling**
    * ✔ A Thousand Beginnings and Endings by Ellen Oh

  14. **A translated book published before 1945**
    * Himself: The Autobiography of a Hindu Lady" , Translated and Adapted by Katherine Van Akin Gates from a book written in the Marathi language by Mrs. Ramabai Ranade

  15. **A book written by a South Asian author**
    * ✔ The Windfall by Diksha Basu (originally from New Delhi, India)

  16. **A book by an Indigenous woman**
    * ✔ Heart Berries by Terese Marie Mailhot
    * Pounamu, Pounamu by Witi Ihimaera (Maori New Zealand)

  17. **A book from the 2018 Reading Women Award shortlist**
    * ✔ Educated by Tara Westover
    * A Place for Us: A Novel by Fatima Farheen Mirza
    * ✔ Heart Berries by Terese Marie Mailhot

  18. **A romance or love story**
    * ✔ An Extraordinary Union by Alissa Cole

  19. **A book about nature**
    * Rural Hours by Susan Fenimore Cooper
    * Gathering Moss: A Natural and Cultural History of Mosses
    * (doesn't count for the challenge because it's not by a woman, but I want to read this one anyway) The Hidden Life of Trees: What They Feel, How They Communicate—Discoveries From a Secret World by Peter Wohlleben
    * ✔ Braiding Sweetgrass: Indigenous Wisdom, Scientific Knowledge, and the Teachings of Plants
by Robin Wall Kimmerer
    * Unbowed by Wangari Maathai

  20. **A historical fiction book**
    * Kristin Lavransdatter by Sigrid Undset, Tiina Nunnally (Translator)

  21. **A book you bought or borrowed in 2019**
    * Holding Still For As Long As Possible
by Zoe Whittall
      * A friend lent me this book in exchange for The Hate You Give (also excellent)

  22. **A book you picked up because of the cover**
      * I will do this, but eventually. It's worth taking a trip over to my favourite bookstore and perusing the shelves.

  23. **Any book from a series**
    * ✔ Murder is Binding by Lorna Barret (book 1 of Booktown Mysteries)
    * ✔ A Study in Scarlet Women part of The Lady Sherlock Series by Sherry Thomas

  24. **A young adult book by a woman of color**
    * ✔ On the Come Up - Angie Thomas
    * ✔ The Poet X by Elizabeth Acevedo

  BONUS:

  25. **A book by Jesmyn Ward**
    * ✔ Men We Reaped
    * ✔ Sing, Unburied, Sing

  26. **A book by Jhumpa Lahiri**
    * ✔The Lowland by Jhumpa Lahiri
    * The Namesake by Jhumpa Lahiri
