---
author: meshell
comments: false
date: 2020-01-13 11:14:26+00:00
layout: post
title: Reading Women 2020 Booklist
category: Books
slug: Reading-Women-2020
title: Reading Women 2020 list
---

I am grateful to last years Reading Women challenge for introducing me to some great women writers and some fantastic series - like the Lady Sherlock Series by Sherry Thomas, reading about Appalachia, discovering how wonderful novellas can be, as well as a deep dive into the work of Jesmyn Ward, and one from Jhumpa Lahiri.

## ** Reading Women 2020 **

1. **Book by an Author from the Caribbean or India**
  * The Ministry of Utmost Happiness by Arundhati Roy
    * I own this book, and it's been staring at me from my shelves since 2017. This is the year I read it. There is even a book club meeting about it I might attend.
2. **A Book Translated from an Asian Language**
  * The Vegetarian by Han Kang, translated by Deborah Smith (written and translated by women
3. **A Book about the Environment**
  * The Migration by Helen Marshall
4. **A Picture Book Written/Illustrated by a BIPOC Author**
  * Sulwe: Lupita Nyong'o, Vashti Harrison
5. **A Winner of the Stella Prize or the Women’s Prize for Fiction**
  * Half of a Yellow Sun - Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
  * The Erratics - Vicki Laveau-Harvie
6. **A Nonfiction Title by a Woman Historian**
  * This Is a Woman: Inside Ravensbrück, Hitler’s Concentration Camp for Women by Sarah Helm
7. **A Book Featuring Afrofuturism or Africanfuturism**
  * Seed to harvest series by Octavia Butler
  * The Broken Earth Trilogy by N.K. Jemisin
8. **An Anthology by Multiple Authors**
  * Maiden, Mother, and Crone: Fantastical Trans Femmes Edited by Gwen Bentway - an anthology anthology by trans femme authors exploring the realms of magic, supernatural beings, and alternate universes.
9. **A Book Inspired by Folklore**
  * Boy, Snow, Bird by Helen Oyeyemi
10. **A Book about a Woman Artist**
  * Identity Unknown: Rediscovering Seven American Women Artists - Donna Seaman
11. **Read and Watch a Book-to-Movie Adaptation**
  * Divergent by Roth
  * ✔ Drive Your Plough over The Bones by Olga Tokarczuk
12. **A Book about a Woman Who Inspires You**
  * ✔ Know my Name - Chantal Miller
13. **A Book by an Arab Woman**
  * Laughing all the way to the mosque by Zarqa Nawaz
  * I am Malala - Malala Yousafzai
  * We have Always Been Here - Samra Habib
14. **A Book Set in Japan or by a Japanese Author**
  * ✔ The Memory Police by Yōko Ogawa
15. **A Biography**

16. **A Book Featuring a Woman with a Disability**

17. **A Book Over 500 Pages**
  *  ✔ Invisible Women by Caroline Criado Perez (it's a sizable book, that I now realize is not 500 pages long, but I'm going to go with it, and maybe find something else that also fits.)
18. **A Book Under 100 Pages**
19. **A Book That’s Frequently Recommended to You**
20. **A Feel-Good or Happy Book**
21. **A Book about Food**
  * Anti-Diet: Reclaim Your Time, Money, Well-Being, and Happiness Through Intuitive Eating - Christy Harrison
  *  The Cooking Gene: A Journey Through African American Culinary History in the Old South by Micheal W. Twitty.
22. **A Book by Either a Favorite or a New-to-You Publisher**
23. **A Book by an LGBTQ+ Author**
  *  ✔ Small Beauty - jia qing wilson-yang
24. **A Book from the 2019 Reading Women Award Shortlists or Honorable Mentions**

**BONUS**
25. **A Book by Toni Morrison**
  * I took a look at [bookriot's list of Toni Morrison's books](https://bookriot.com/2018/05/15/toni-morrison-books/) and a suggested order - The Bluest Eye
26. **A Book by Isabel Allende**
